                                     Government of Paklstan
                                        Revenue Division
                                    Federal Board of Revenue
                                             'l,t't * *
C. No. 4(32) lT-Bud Eet/ 2025                                     lslamabad, the 2"d August, 2025

                                    Circular No. 01 of 2025-25
                                           lncome Tax

SUBJECT: FINANCE ACT, 2025 - EXPLANATION OF IMPORTANT AMENDMENTS MADE lN THE
             INCOME TAX ORDINANCE, 2OO1

The Finance Act,2025 has brought about certain amendments in the lncome Tax Ordinance
2001 (the Ordinance, hereafter). Some significant amendments are explained hereunder: -

1.     lntroducing Tax Regime for E-commerce I         use (17C) and (19AA) of Section 2, Sections
       153, 165C, 181 and 1821

       The changing dynamics of retail market in Pakistan along with the fact that a large number
        of population of sellers connected with on-line marketplace or working through their e-
        stores are not registered and operate informally encouraged to design a framework to
        register these sellers, assign them NationalTax Numbers through a simplified process and
        to ensure that a contribution to tax on every digitally ordered transaction is collected
        throuBh placinB a workable withholding tax regime.

        For taxing domestic e-commerce transactions, a charginB section 6A has been introduced
        which stipulate that every payment received for digitally ordered goods or services using
        an online market place (OMP) or website shall be charged to tax. Corresponding changes
       for ensuring upfront withholding tax collection has been introduced in section 153(2A)
       whereby payment intermediary (banking company, financial institution, licensed dealer
       of foreign exchange and payment gateways) and courier involved in Cash on Delivery
       (coD) are made responsible to collect withholding lax @l% and zyo on gross amount of
        receipts respectively at the time of remitting payment to the seller. The dlfferential in tax
        rate between these withholdings is for encouraging the use of digital means for payment
        to meet overall national objective of transforming to cashless economy. The tax collected
        under the scheme is a final tax u/s 6A on the income derived by the seller from local e-
        commerce transactions and the export transactions. However, withholding under
        sectionl54 and 1544 will fall outside the ambit of taxation under this regime. For the
        purpose of clarity, the terms relevant to this scheme such as e-commerce, digitally
        delivered services, online marketplace, payment intermediary and courier service have
        been incorporated in the Ordinance.

        Payment intermediary and courier have to collect tax in the name of each seller, deposit
        it in the treasury on the monthly basis beside filing the prescribed WHT statement in this
        regard. The payment intermediary and courier service are required to file a prescribed
                                                  7
     withholding statement containing information of all transactions of every seller making
     sales through OMP and or e-stores.

     Every seller has been required under the law to get itself registered in income tax and
     OMP and courier service are also now barred to offer their services to any unregistered
     sellers. oMPs are obligated to file statements about the vendors using their platforms.
     Penalties have been prescribed if compliance is not made with respect to filing of
     statutory statements. Penalties on online marketplace and courier service have also been
     placed in case of default to withheld tax or to comply with registration requirement of
     the seller.
     RegardinB the responsibility of collecting tax under this section, it is clarified that in the
     case of vendors being e-stores and similar mobile applications where payment is made
     online, the acquiring bank will be the payment intermediary for the purpose of this
     provision and shall be responsible to collect tax. On the other hand, in the case of vendors
     being e-stores and similar mobile applications where payment is made on Cash on
     Delivery (CoD) basis, the courier which could be an aggregator, providlng service to the e-
     store or mobile application of delivering goods and collecting cash at the doorstep of the
     buyer shall be responsible to comply with all the statutory obligations in this regard.

     Further, in case a vendor sells goods through Online Market Place (OMP) and payment is
     made online, the bank or financial institution of OMP in the second and final arm of
     transaction settling the payment between vendor and buyer shall be the payment
     intermediary for the purpose of the collection of tax. lt may be noted that the issuing and
     acquiring banks in the first arm of transaction could not be the payment intermediaries
     as they are involved in settling transaction between the buyer and OMP, which is acting
     as an agent for the vendor/seller and not a seller in real sense. On the other hand, in case
     a vendor sells goods through OMP or otherwise and payment is made on Cash on Delivery
     (CoD) basis, the courier, which could be an OMP in case vendor is using its services; or the
     aggregator who indirectly provides such services to e-store; or the courier directly
     providing those services to the e-store or mobile application of delivering goods and
     collecting cash at the doorstep of the buyer shall be responsible to comply with all the
     statutory obligations in this regard.
2.   Taxins the Pension lncome lsections 12(2Xf], 39 and 1491

     The pension income is chargeable to tax either under section 12(2)(f) or section 39 of the
     Ordinance. Earlier pension received from a former employer was exempt under clauses
     (8) and sub-cla use (i) of clause (9) of the Ord inance. Through Finance Act 2025, the clauses
     (8) and sub-clause (i) of clause (9) of the Ordinance have been omitted. Resultantly,
     pension from former employer is now chargeable to tax. As per section 12(2)(f) of the
     Ordinance pension received by a former employee is chargeable as final tax at the rate of
     5% if it exceeds rupees ten million per annum and the recipient is less than 70 years old.



                                               2
         A recipient of pension shall not be chargeable to tax if he/she is older than seventy years
         of age or the amount of pension per annum is less than ten million rupees.
         Pension of a person who continues to work for the said employer or its associate shall be
         chargeable at normal slab rates specified in Division I of Part I of the First Schedule of the
         Ordinance. The employer will continue to be responsible for withholding under section
         149 and of collecting surcharge, if applicable under the provision of section 4AB, at the
         rate of 9%.

         The private pension disbursed by Pension Fund Manager of voluntary Pension Scheme
         Rules 2005 and any other amount of pension not received from a former employer will
         continue to be charged to tax under section 39 of the Ordinance. Moreover, the
         commutation of pension, gratuity, fifty percent of the available balance in a pension
         account under certain specified conditions will continue to be exempt from tax under the
         relevant clauses of Part I of the Second Schedule of the ordinance.

    3.   Advance Tax on Cash Withdrawal from Bank lsection 231ABl

         Section 231A8 was introduced through Finance Acl, 2023 whereby every banking
         company was authorized to deduct advance adjustable tax @ 0.6% from a person whose
         name is not appearing in Active Taxpayer List, where the aggregate of cash withdrawals
         in a single day exceeds Rs.50,000/- .

         Through Finance Act 2025, the tax rate on cash withdrawal has been increased to 0.8%
         of the amount of cash withdrawn.

    4.   Tax Rebate to Full-Time Teachers and Researchers lclause (3A] of Part lll of the Second
         Schedulel

         The tax rebate of 25% against tax payable by full-time teachers or researchers was
         admissible up to tax year 2022 under omitted sub-clause (2) of clause (1) of Part lll of
         Second Schedule to the lncome Tax Ordinance, 2001. No rebate was therefore available
         to full-time teachers and researchers for tax year 2023 and onwards.

         Amendment has been incorporated in the Ordinance through Finance Act,2025, whereby
         25% tax rebate to full time teachers and researchers has been reintroduced by way of
         inserting a new clause (3A) in Part lll of the Second Schedule of the ordinance. The said
         amendment allowed the tax rebate to these persons for three tax years only mentioned
         above and will no longer be available for tax year 2026 and onwards.

    5.   Tax Relief for Sala     Persons [Clause {2} of Division I of Part I of the F irst Schedulel

         To provide relief to lower and middle tier salary income as well as reduce tax liability in a
         significant way for upper tier salaried individuals the following changes have been
M        introduced:




                                                   3
                           Taxable lncome                              Rate of Tax
      S#
      (1)                          (2)                                        (3)
      1     Where taxable income does not exceed Rs.                          o%
            600,000/-
      2.    Where taxable income exceeds Rs.600,000/- but      1% of the amount exceeding
            does not exceed Rs. 1,200,000/-                    Rs.600,000/-
      3.    Where taxable income exceeds Rs. 1,200,000/-       Rs. 6,000/- + 11% of the
            but does not exceed Rs.2,2OO,OOO|-                 amount exceeding Rs.
                                                               1,200,000/-
      4     Where taxable income exceeds Rs. 2,200,000/-       Rs. 116,000/- + 23% of the
            but does not exceed Rs. 3,200,000/-                amount exceeding Rs.
                                                               2,200,000/-
      5     Where taxable income exceeds Rs. 3,200,000/-       Rs. 345,000/- + 30% of the
            but does not exceed Rs.4,100,000/-                 amount exceeding Rs.
                                                               3,200,000/-
      6.    Where taxable income exceeds Rs.4,100,000/-        Rs. 615,000/- + 35% of the
                                                               amount exceeding Rs.
                                                               4,too,ooo/-


6,   Rationalization of Appeal Filins before Appellate Forum
     ln order to lessen the extra burden and references on questions of facts in High Courts
     resulting from amendments of 2024, the criteria of monetary threshold for filing appeal
     either before CIR (Appeals) or ATIR have been withdrawn. Now the taxpayer can exercise
     its discretion to file appeal to the CIR (Appeals) or directly before the ATIR.

     Some corrective provisions have also been Incorporated in section 133 of the Ordinance:

     i)     Now a taxpayer can file an appeal before High Court within sixty days of the
            receipt of judgement of ATIR

     ii)    only question relevant to law arising out of the judgment of ATIR can be filed
            before the High Court.

7    Recreation Clubs Taxabilitv

     The clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 18 of the ordinance, which provides for
     taxability of income derived by cooperative societies from the sale of goods, immoveable
     property or provision of services to its members has been explained through earlier Act,
     to always include aforementioned incomes as chargeable to tax under the provisions of
     this Ordinance. The scope of this explanation regarding tax on income on account of sale
     of goods or rendering of services by cooperative societies to its members has been
     expanded to say that it shall mutatis mutandis apply to recreational clubs involved in
     similar kind of transactions with its members.


                                            4
         The corresponding amendment has been made in clause (36) of section 2 of the
         Ordinance wherein those recreational clubs have been excluded from the definition of
         non-profit organizations which charge membership fee exceeding rupees one million for
         any class of new members as joining fee.

    8.   Disallowance of Certain E        iture lsections 21& 221
         As explained below, new clauses have been inserted to make disallowance for
         expenditure under certain specific circumstances:

         (i)    Through Finance A c|,2025, a new clause (q) has been inserted in Section 2L of the
                lncome Tax Ordinance,2001 whereby ten percent expenditure attributable to
                purchases from persons who are not NTN holder will be liable to disallowed. lt
                aims to enable formal sector to capture more market share as compared to that
                of informal sector. This provision will not apply on agriculture produce unless it is
                sold by middle men. This provision also authorizes the board to exempt any class
                of persons sub.ject to conditions and limitations as it deems appropriate.
         (ii)   Through Finance Act 2025, a new clause (s) has been inserted in Section 21 of the
                lncome Tax Ordinance,2001, which envisages that where a person makes

                i)      a sale of Rs. 200,000 or above on a single invoice and

                ii)    and payment is not received through banking channel or digital means

                50 % of the proportionate business expenditure attributable to such sales shall be
                disallowed. For the purposes of section 21(s), it is clarified that when a person,
                whether an NTN holder or otherwise, deposits the cash against invoices in the
                bank account of the seller, the payment shall be treated as having taken place
                through banking channel and no disallowance of the expenditure will be made in
                this regard under this clause.
         (iii) Through Finance Acl, 2025, in section 22 of the Ordinance, the depreciation
         expense of any capital asset shall be inadmissible if the capital asset has been acquired
         without discharging the withholding obligation on the payments made under sections 152
         or 153 of the Ordinance as the case may be. The said amount paid to a supplier of capital
         assets on which tax was not withheld and deposited will not become part of the cost of
         asset for the purpose of computation of tax depreciation for the tax year in which the
         acq uisition is made.

    9    Amortization of lntangibles lsection 241
         Earlier intangible assets which does not have a determinable useful life was allowed to be
{        amortized for twenty-five years. Through an amendment vide Finance Act,2025 this
         period has been reduced to fifteen years for any intangible assets having indeterminable
         useful life.



                                                  5
10. Restriction of lnter-head adiustment of losses lsection 561
      Earlier losses under any head of income including loss under section 18 were allowed to
      be set off against income chargeable to tax under any head except salary. Finance Act
      2025 has introduced a proviso whereby the setting off of the business losses with the
      income from property has been disallowed.

11.   Preventins Tax Avoidance Looohole Under Group Relief Scheme lsection 59BI

      Finance Act, 2025 has introduced additional condition which prevents any company
      within the group whose income is not chargeable to tax under Division ll of Part I of the
      First Schedule to the Ordinance to become part of the group relief scheme under the
      Ordinance. This means that any income of a company within the group chargeable to tax
      other than Division ll of Part I of the First Schedule to the Ordinance will lead to such
      company to get disqualified for group relief under section 598 of the Ordinance.

L4.   Bestruqtuing of Entitlemenl tqlrcmption under elause (66LOf Part I of the Second
      Schedule

      Previously, the entities representing institutions, foundations, societies, boards, trust and
      funds were classified into two broad categories. The Table l, entities enjoyed complete
      exemption on their any income for a tax year and entities in Table ll were given the same
      privileBe subject to such conditions and limitations as specified in section 100C of the
      Ord ina nce.

      Through Finance Acl,2025 both the Tables have been reorganized to do away with
      blanket exemptions unless there are any rational basis. Consequently, the entities with
      whom Government of Pakistan have entered into a sovereign agreement and those which
      have been established for carrying out the purposes of Government of Pakistan would
      continue to the entitlement of un-conditional exemption on their any head of income and
      have been placed under clause (57) of Part I of the Second Schedule to the Ordinance.

      The rest of the entities, which have characteristics of Non-Profit Organization, are placed
      in a single Table and that table continues to be part of clause (66) of Part I of the Second
      Schedule and these will be entitled to hundred percent tax credit on their any income
      subject to the conditions and limitations as specified in section 100C of the Ordinance.

15. Reduction in carry forward period for min imum turnover tax [Section 1131
      Prior to Finance Act, 2025 the minimum tax paid in excess of the tax liability on normal
      income was allowed to be carried forward and remained available for adjustment against
      income of the next three succeeding tax years until fully setoff. Now through an
      amendment vide Finance Act,2025 this period has been reduced to two years for
      adjustment of left-over minimum tax under section 113 of the Ordinance.




                                                6
 15. Restriction on Economic Transactions bv Certain Persons [Section 114C1
        Section 114C has been introduced through Finance Act,2025. This provision introduces a
        concept of eligible and ineligible person based upon the financial capacity of a person to
        conduct an economic transaction in terms of cash or cash equivalent assets declared in
        the wealth statement filed for the latest tax year or an evidentiary source reflected in
        investment and expenditure statement filed as justification for availability of funding for
        conducting an economic transaction during the year.

        To be qualified as an eligible person for carrying out specified economic transaction,
        sufficient resources must be available either in the wealth statement or in the financial
        statement for the tax year immediately preceding the year of transaction; or in a
        statement of source of investment and expenditure filed during the year of transaction
        showing sufficient resources.

        Sufficient resources have been defined as one hundred and thirty percent of cash and
        cash equivalent assets comprising cash denominated in local or foreign currency, fair
        market value of gold, net realizable value of stocks, bonds, receivables; or any other cash
        equivalent asset as may be prescribed.

        Moreover, an economic transaction involving exchange of already declared capital assets
        as consideration has been treated as part of cash and cash equivalent assets to the extent
        of the value mentioned in the transaction agreement.

        ln case of an individual, the term 'eligible person' includes his immediate family members
        i.e. parents, spouse and dependent children. Under this new regime, an ineligible person
        has been barred from:

                   a. purchase of motor vehicle with an invoice value exceeding seven million
                       rupees,

                   b. acquisition or transfer of immoveable property having fair market value
                       exceeding one hundred million rupees,

                   c. investment in securities, unit of mutual funds or similar investment having
                       its cost of acquisition exceeding fifty million rupees subject to the
                       condition that the investment up to fifty million rupees must be a new
                       investment in any financial year excluding reinvestment out of liquidation
                       or profit of already held investment.

        It is highlighted that the sufficient resources declared in source of expenditure statement
      will not constitute as nature or sources of income for the purposes of section 111 of the
   7/Ordin.nre. Cash withdrawal from any of his bank account exceeding an amount one
1]R( hundred million rupees is also prohibited under this section. The provision of this section
      will not apply on transactlons made by a non-resident person or a public company except
      the transaction of withdrawal of cash. Moreover, the provisions of this section will come


                                                 1
       into force from such date as may be notified by the Federal Government through
       notification in the official Gazette.
77.     han    in Modali     for Recove        of outstandin   x          ons 138 and 140

       Sub-sections (3A) and (64) of section 138 a nd 140 have been introduced respectively with
       fast track recovery of outstanding tax dues. The dues will become immediately payable
       for recovery by the Commissioner lnland Revenue, subject to the conditions that the
       department has won the case in all three appellate forums from CIR (Appeals) to High
       Court, if the amount of outstanding dues exceeds rupees two hundred million.

18. Gain arisins on dispo sal of certain debt securities lsection 151A1
       The debt securities sold at a bank's counters give rise capital gains, but there has been no
       mechanism of withholding tax on such Bains and in many reported instances the gain was
       being declared by the sellers in their tax returns. To prevent the revenue loss and capture
       the tax base on account of capital gains arisin8 to the seller of debt security sold over the
       bank counter, all custodian of the debt securities including banking companies holding
       any investment portfolio through lnvestor Portfolio Securities (lPS) account have been
       declared as withholding agent to collect advance tax on account of income arising from
       capital gains at the rate of 15% at the time of disposal of securities and deposit the same
       in to government treasury. The capital gain arising to the seller of debt securities will be
       computed as differentlal of the cost of acquisition and the price at which the debt
       securities have been dlsposed of.

19. Tax Rate Differential on capital Gains for Non-resident Persons tSection 152(lD)l
       Prior to enactment of Finance AcI,2025, the capital gain arising to non-resident person
       having no permanent establishment in Pakistan invested through Special Convertible
       Rupee Account (SCRA) on debt securities of the Federal Government was charge to tax at
       the rate of 10% without any holding period. Now the tax rate of 10% will apply on capital
       gains on disposal of debt securities which have been held for a period of more than six
       months. ln case of early disposal within specified period of six months, tax rcte of 2oyo
       will apply on capital gains arising from such disposal.
20. lncrease in Withholdins Tax Rate s on Services lsection 152 & 1531
       Withholding tax rates on non-categorized services u/s 153 applicable prior to Finance Act,
       2025 were applied at the rate 9% and L7% for company and other than companies
       respectively. The rate of withholding for Sports Person was 10%. Similarly, under section
       152 and 153 of the Ordinance categorized services were chargeable to withholding tax at
       the rate of 4%. Through Finance Act, 2025 the withholding tax rate for unspecified

$'     services as well as for sports person will be charged at the flat rcle of 15%. However, for
       specified services mentioned under section 152 the withholding tax rate have been
       increased from 4%o to 8%; and the rate under section 153 is increased from 4% to 6%



                                                     8
      excluding lT and lT enabled services which will continue to be subject to withholding tax
      rate of 4Yo.

2L, Grant of Exemption with respect to 235C under s pecified conditions [Section 159 and
      Clause (104A) of Part lV of Second Schedulel

      Capital gain on immoveable property acquired on or before 30th day of June, 2024 is
      charge to tax at slab rates ranging from 15% to 0% depending upon the holding period. ln
      case of an immoveable property being an open plot, the tax on capital gains after the
      holding period of six years become 0%. Similar in the case of constructed property on
      which capital gain is chargeable to tax at the rate of 0% after the holding period of four
      years. For simplicity of a person whose income from disposal of immoveable property is
      chargeable at the rate of 0%, exemption provision has been introduced in section 159
      whereby such person may apply for exemption certificate on account of advance tax on
      sale or transfer of immoveable property subject to the following conditions and to the
      fact that such immovable property giving rise to tax free capitalgains -

      (a)     has been in the personal use for the last fifteen years;

      (b)     has been declared by the person in his wealth statement under section 116 for
              the last fifteen years; and
      (c)     appears as residence for personal use in tax record ofthe person.

      Moreover, under the situations specified regarding above immoveable property, the
      super tax under section 4C will also not be payable by the seller or transferee on capital
      gains arising from disposal of such specified residential immovable property. The
      exemption certificate for any person under this section read with section 236C and waiver
      from section 4C will be issued or applied once every fifteen years.
22.   Exchange of Bankins and Tax lnformation Related to Hish Risk Persons [Section 175AAl

      This new section envisages secure exchange of information allowing Board to share
      particulars of a taxpayer declared in its income tax/sales tax return as well as
      financial/wealth statement with scheduled banks through database algorithms for cross
      matching. After needful has been performed, the scheduled banks will provide to the
      Board data of such bank transactions which is at variance with the given input of the
      Board. The implementation of this provision will be helpful in compliance risk
      management. The information will be kept confidential and only be used for tax purposes.

23    Condonation of Time Period bv the Board [Section 214A1
      The power of the Board to grant condonation for unlimited period have been curtailed to



x
      a period of two years through Finance Act, 2025. However, in case of certain exigencies
      involving significant revenue loss to exchequer or the taxpayer have been caused due to
      an act of omission or commission by the person or the Commissioner, a committee will
      be constituted by the Board which can condone time limitation beyond period of two year
      after providing an opportunity of heard to the person concerned.
                                                9
24. Chanse in Advance Tax Rates on sale or t ransfer or purchase of immovable Properw
       Sections 236C and 236K

      To provide relief to the purchaser/buyer of the immoveable property, the progressive
      advance withholding tax rates have been reduced by 1.5 % for each slab. Correspondingly
      for seller/tra nsferee increased in withholding tax rates by 1.5% have been made for each
      slab. The reason for increase in the withholding tax rates is for its adjustment against
      capital gains derived by such seller on the sale of immoveable property. The
      corresponding changes have also been made in Tenth Schedule for late filers and non-
      filers and withholding tax rates on purchase specified for such category of persons have
      been reduced by 1.5% and corresponding increase in withholding tax rates for seller
      across the board.

25.   Chanse in Tax Rate of Dividend from M           ual Fund [Division lll of Part lof the First
      Schedu le

       Prior to Finance Act, 2025, a flat tax rate of 25% was applicable on dividend income of the
      unit holders if mutual fund derived income from profit on debt is equal to or in excess of
      fifty percent from investment in debt securities. Now tax rates of 25% and 15% will apply
      on the income derived from debt securities and income from investment in equities
      respectively when mutual fund dlstributes that income to the unit holders as dividend.
      Respective change in the withholding tax rate of dividend from mutual fund have also
      been incorporated in Division I of Part lll of the First Schedule. Moreover, if the recipient
      of the dividend from mutual fund is a company, then in such case the dividend as
      distributed by the mutual fund out of profit on debt from debt securities will be charge
      to tax at the rate specified in Division ll of Part I of the First Schedule instead of tax rate
       25%.

26.   Chanee in Tax Rate of Profit on Debt [Division lllA of Part lan d D ivision lA of Part lll of
      the First Schedulel
      The tax rate on profit on debt derived from deposits in banking companies, financial
       institutions and investment in government securities, except the profit derived by
       individuals from government securities, have been increased from 15% to 20%. The tax
       rate on profit on debt derived from sources such as National Saving Schemes or Post
       office Savings Account etc. remains unchanged. Necessary changes in this regard have
       been incorporated in Divislon lA of Part lll of the First Schedule. Prior to Finance Act, 2025
       in Tenth Schedule the rate for non-filer persons were specified at 35% on profit on debt.
       Now this entry has been omitted and for tax yeat 2026 and onwards hundred percent
       increase in tax rates for non-filers persons deriving income from profit on debt will apply.

27. lncorporation of sunset clause for exempt ion to sDecial Economic Zone (5Ez) and SDecial
       Technolosv Zone (5TZl IClause 1126E) and (126EAl of Part I of the Second Schedulel

       Through Finance Acl, 2025 a sunset period has been introduced for the purposes of
       availing exemption on income by SEZ and STz. Now such exemption will be restricted up
                                                 10
       to tax year 2035 or for a period of ten years starting from the date of commandment
       commercial operation for SEZ or for a period of ten years from the date of issuance of
       license by the Special Technology Zone Authority for STZ whichever is earlier.

28     Extension of ExemDtions available to the e rstwhile Tribal Areas JClause 145A) of Part I
       and Clauses (109A) and (u0) of Part-lV of the Second Schedulel

       The exemption, available under clause (1454) of Part I of the Second Schedule to the
       Ordinance to any income of any individual domiciled or company and association of
       persons resident in the erstwhile Tribal Areas forming part of the provinces of the Khyber
       Pakhtunkhwa and Baluchistan under paragraph (d) of Article 246 of the Constitution, has
       been extended up to the 30th June, 2026. Corresponding change has also been
       incorporated in respect to withholding tax exemption in clause (1094) and (1.10) of Part
       lV of the Second Schedule.

29. Limitation for Exemotion on lncome Derived from Cinema Operation lClause (151) of
       Part I of 5econd Schedulel

       Through Finance Act,2025, the exemption of income derived from cinema operations will
       be available to a person till 30th June, 2030 or five years from commencement of cinema
       operations whichever is earlier.

30     Selection of a Person for Audit lclause (105A] of Part lV of the Second Schedulel

       The original clause in this regard was introduced through Finance Ac|,2022 placing bar
       on selection of any case for audit under sections U7 and 274C fot four years if audit of
       income tax affairs of that case has been audited in any of the four proceeding years. The
       original intension of the said clause was to avoid repeated audits which have been
       resulting in genuine hardship to taxpayers. However, multiple interpretation of said
       clause resulted in multiple outcomes resulting in inconsistency in application of the said
       clause by the field formation. Through Finance Act, 2025 the said clause has been
       redrafted for clarity which stipulates that a person whose income tax affairs have been
       selected for audit in any of the proceeding three tax years, such person will be immune
       from the selection for audit under sections L77 and 214C of the Ordinance during the
       currency of that time frame.

31. chanse in the seventh Schedule Provisions for Banki ng Companies ISeventh Schedulel
       The seventh schedule has been amended to align the banking income close to the taxable
       income. ln this regard, rental expenses and expenses on refurbishment of offices are
       allowed in a specified manner as laid down in the provisions. The expense on account of
       bad debts is also reinforced in accordance with the laid down principles. Some filing
       requirements are also placed upon the external auditors to bring authenticity in expense
       claim on account of bad debts.

The Board reaffirms its commitment to provide every support for facilitating compliance to the
newly introduced provisions in the ordinance. The Board will also ensure that the provisions

                                               11
related to enforcement be carried out in judicious manner with redressal committees in place
comprising of representatives of business community and the Board.




                                                                (Muha            n Qureshi)
                                                                   Secretary (lT Budget)
(1)    SA to Chairman, FBR
(2)    SA to Member (lnland Revenue - Policy), FBR
(3)    SA to Member (lnland Revenue - Operations), FBR
(4)    SA to Member (lT), FBR
(s)    All Chief Commissioners lnland Revenue
(5)    President Pakistan Tax Bar Association
(71    Webmaster for placement on FBR's web portal




                                             12
